Content Writing Example #6: Ebooks 
Creating ebooks for your customers is a great way to offer in-depth explorations of your products and services. This is a great educational tool and can help you to convince potential customers to convert to actual customers. Content writing for these pieces can be more technical, but make sure that you keep the jargon and specialized vocabulary to a minimum or explain it so that you bring your audience along with you. 

Content Writing Example #7: White papers
White papers are similar to ebooks in that they are longer pieces that are meant to be educational and delve deeper into subjects. However, white papers help you to establish your business as an industry expert and gives you authority in the eyes of customers. White papers can expand on topics that you use in your blog posts or cover other related topics or opinions.

Content Writing Example #8: User Guides and How-To’s
These types of content writing are very helpful for your current customers and for people who are close to making the purchasing decision. You can show off your products and how to use them and help your customers understand and utilize your products fully. 

Content Writing Example #9: Case studies
If you’re looking to optimize your conversion rate, case studies are a useful tool. Customers are often convinced by case studies that prove your products and solutions work. It’s important to show things like the value your business provides, sales history, and compare and contrast to your competitors’ solutions. Writing about a customer challenge and showing how your products solved that issue is a great technique to create your first case study. 

5 Little Known Reasons Your Content Writer Should Be a Philosopher:
(1) Philosophers are the experts at reasoning.
We are trained to construct arguments that function like well-oiled machines. Sometimes these machines are very complicated with lots of different parts. Speaking generally, though, the machines are intended to take inputs of truths (premises), and to dispense shiny, new truths (conclusions). Some arguments are intended to to dispense conclusions that are only likely to be true. The type of output depends on the type of argument constructed.

Your credibility is at stake when you publish content. So you need it to be truthful, and you need it to make claims that are well supported.

You can read and view the course material for free. You’ll need to pay if you want your coursework graded and to receive a certificate at the end of the course.

(2) Philosophers evaluate others’ reasoning.
As well as constructing our own arguments to find the truth, philosophers also ask whether claims made by others are true and well supported. Pedantry and pathological questioning are occupational hazards.

What, exactly, is the author’s argument? Does it work? Are all the premises true? What background assumptions are being made (either explicitly or implicitly)? Do we share those same assumptions? Or should they be defended? Can they be successfully defended? What happens if we reject those assumptions?

So, when a marketer says you need to do such-and-such, a philosopher’s finely-tuned BS detector kicks in. We ask whether they have good reasons to support their claim. Detecting nonsense can of course save you wasted time, effort, and money.


Photo credit: Lobo Studio Hamburg

For example, a Twitter aficionado might declare that your business must publish content on Twitter. But what if there turn out to be no good reasons to support that recommendation? It’s a better bet to put your limited resources into content strategies that are well-supported.

You need a content writer who can look into the reasons behind a claim and evaluate whether they are good ones. (And whether an alternative claim has better supporting reasons.)

(3) Relatedly, philosophers dig deep.
Philosophers are driven to do research. This doesn’t mean that all our research ends up in the final piece. You don’t want to bore your readers with too much background detail. But you need your writer to have sufficient supports working in the background.

For example, suppose you need an article on the three best pain relief strategies for arthritis sufferers. You don’t want your content writer to write about the first three strategies they come across on Google. You need your writer to have good reasons (in this case, empirical evidence) to put those three at the top of the list, and not any other three. Their reasons for putting other strategies lower on the list may not end up in the finished piece — but you need your writer to have those reasons.

A philosopher knows what is justified to claim and what is not. “The 3 Best Pain Relief Strategies for Arthritis Sufferers” is very different from “The 3 Most Popular Pain Relief Strategies.” Your readers must be able to trust you. You don’t want to let them down with content that doesn’t live up to the headline. If you disappoint them with clickbait, they’re more likely to leave your site, and you haven’t achieved anything.

Disappointing content is bad not only for your readers. If readers repeatedly bounce off your website, that may be harmful for your site in Google’s eyes too.

(4) Philosophers explain difficult ideas in simple ways.
If you’ve ever taken a philosophy class, you know philosophy is hard. Philosophy teachers need to put complicated ideas into simple language for students. As in any discipline, there are teachers who are better at this than others. But it’s something that all philosophers expect to do: Take difficult ideas and make them easy to understand. Both on paper and in the classroom.


Not philosophy, but it looks complicated. Photo credit: This is Edinburgh on Flickr.

A philosopher who is interested in your industry is unlikely to be fazed by the challenge of explaining it, even if it’s complicated. A trained philosopher is typically comfortable with not knowing everything. (They won’t fake it!) And they will ask the right questions to learn what they need to know. Once they have the information, philosophers understand how important it is to express it in simple terms. You want the target readers for your business website to understand your content! Otherwise, what’s the point?

If you write your own content, make it as clear as possible. If you’d like some help, I recommend the classic book, On Writing Well, by William Zinsser.

(5) Philosophers stick with it.
Because philosophy is hard, philosophers have a special kind of tenacity. (Masochism?) We are used to persisting and working hard to understand difficult material. To analyze an argument you have to understand it. To understand it, you have to know how all the claims (explicit and implicit) work together. You have to figure out whether the argument supports (or fails to support) the conclusion, and why. So if you need a ‘translator’ who is going to stick with it when the going gets tough, a philosopher might be the superhero you need.

We’re also used to taking criticism. If a sentence is not clear or accurate, you need someone who won’t be crushed by your criticism. You need someone who will roll up their sleeves and make it better.

So, what do you think? Are these are good reasons to hire a philosopher to write your content? Or did I try to snow you with rhetoric? Hit me with your arguments in the comments.
